Files format
============

This package uses several types of files, this section describe them all.

`Dataset`
---------
Extension: .item

This file indexes the database on which the ABX task is executed. It
is a regular text file and should have the following structure:

======= ======= ====== ======== ======= =======
#file   onset   offset #label 1 label 2 label 3
======= ======= ====== ======== ======= =======
file 1  start 1 stop 1 value 1  value 1 value 1
file 2  start 2 stop 2 value 2  value 1 value 1
file 3  start 3 stop 3 value 3  value 1 value 1
======= ======= ====== ======== ======= =======

- the first line must be a header line beginning with the 3 fields
  **#file onset offset**.
- **#file** is the name of the file minus the extension. Note that the
  '#' at the begining is mandatory.
- **onset** is the instant when the sound start.
- **offset** is the instant when the sound end.
- the **label** columns are various regressors relevant to the
  discrimination task. Note that the first label column must start
  with a **'#'**.

`Features file`
---------------
Extension: .features

This file contains the features and the center time of each window in
the `h5features`_ format. This is a special `hdf5`_ file with the
following attributes:

- **features** a 2D arrays with the 'feature' dimension along the
  columns and the 'time' dimension along the lines.
- **times** a 1D array with the center time of each window.
- **files** the basename of the files from which the features are
  extracted. Note that it does not contain the full absolute path nor
  the relative path of the files, each file must have a unique name.

`Task file`
-----------
Extension: .abx

This file can be generated by the task module. It is a `hdf5`_
file. It contains all the triplets and the resulting pairs. The
elements are grouped by their 'by' attribute (all the elements with
the same by attributes belong to the same block)

The structure is as follow:

data.abx

- triplets
	- by0: (3 x ?)-array referencing all the possible triplets
          sharing a 'by' value of by0
	- by1
	- etc.
- unique_pairs (All the pairs AX and BX, useful to calculate the
  distances. Note that a pair is designated by a single number due to
  a special encoding)
	- by0: 1D-array referencing all the pairs sharing a 'by' value
          of by0. Note that this is only 1D instead of 2D due to a
          special encoding of the pairs. Let 'n' be the number of
          items in the block, 'a' be the index of the first item of
          the pair and 'b' the index of the second item: the index of
          the pair 'p' = n*a + b
	- etc.
- regressors (infos of the item file in a computer efficient format)
- feat_dbs (infos of the item file in a computer efficient format)

`Distance file`
---------------
Extension: .distance

This file contains the distances between the two members of each
unique pair. The distances are store by 'by' block and in the same
order as the unique_pairs in the `Task file`_.

- distances
    - by0: 1D-array containing the distances between the two members
      of each pair.
    - by1
    - etc.

`Score file`
------------
Extension: .score

This file contains the score of each triplets. The score is 1 when X
is closer to A and -1 when X is closer to B. The score are stored by
'by' block and in the same order as the triplets in the `Task file`_.

- scores
    - by0: 1D-array of integers containing the score of each triplet.
    - by1
    - etc.

`Analyse file`
--------------
Extension: .csv

The output file of the ABX baseline, in a human readable
format. Contains the average results collapsed over triplets sharing
the same on, across and by attributes. It uses a score of 1 when X is
closer to A and 0 when X is closer to B.

The extensions _1 and _2 to the labels name follow the following
convention:

+------+------+------+
|  A   |  B   |  X   |
+======+======+======+
| on_1 | on_2 | on_1 |
+------+------+------+
| ac_1 | ac_1 | ac_2 |
+------+------+------+

Example:
For a task on 'on', across 'ac' and by 'by'

==== ==== ==== ==== == ===== =
on_1 ac_1 ac_2 on_2 by score n
==== ==== ==== ==== == ===== =
v0   v0   v1   v1   v0 0.2   5
v1   v1   v0   v0   v0 0.7   3
==== ==== ==== ==== == ===== =

- **on_1** value of 'on' label for A and X
- **on_2** value of 'on' label for B
- **ac_1** value of 'ac' label for A and B
- **ac_2** value of 'ac' label for X
- **by** value of 'by' label for A, B and X
- **score** average score for those triplets
- **n** number of triplets

.. _hdf5: http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/
.. _h5features: 404
